.\" PYGLSPG4(1) manual page
.\" Copyright (C) 2025-2026 Kris Kirby, KE4AHR
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: LGPL-3.0-or-later
.\"
.TH PYGLSPG4 1 "2025-12-22" "PyglSPG4" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pyglspg4 \- Python implementation of NORAD SGP-4 / SDP-4 for satellite tracking
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pyglspg4
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
PyglSPG4 is a pure-Python, LGPL-licensed implementation of the NORAD
Simplified General Perturbations models (SGP-4 and SDP-4).

It is designed for deterministic orbital propagation, ground-station
visibility prediction, and amateur radio satellite operations.

The software emphasizes architectural clarity, scientific transparency,
and thread-safe execution.
.SH FEATURES
.IP \(bu 4
TLE parsing and validation
.IP \(bu 4
Near-Earth SGP-4 orbital propagation
.IP \(bu 4
TEME to Earth-fixed coordinate transformations
.IP \(bu 4
Ground-station pass prediction (AOS / LOS / max elevation)
.IP \(bu 4
Deterministic and parallel-safe design
.SH SUPPORTED ORBITS
.IP \(bu 4
Near-Earth satellites (orbital period less than 225 minutes)
.PP
Deep-space orbits (GEO, Molniya, Tundra) are architecturally planned
but not yet implemented.
.SH COMMAND-LINE INTERFACE
A formal command-line interface is planned but not yet finalized.
.PP
Current usage is via the Python API.
.SH PYTHON API OVERVIEW
Basic propagation example:
.PP
.nf
    from pyglspg4.tle.parser import parse_tle
    from pyglspg4.api.propagate import propagate

    tle = parse_tle(line1, line2)
    pos, vel, err = propagate(tle, tsince_min)
.fi
.PP
Ground-station pass prediction:
.PP
.nf
    from pyglspg4.groundstation.station import GroundStation
    from pyglspg4.groundstation.passes import predict_passes

    station = GroundStation(lat_rad, lon_rad, alt_km)
    passes = predict_passes(tle, station, start_dt, end_dt)
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.B sgp4/
Near-Earth propagation core
.TP
.B sdp4/
Deep-space propagation (planned)
.TP
.B frames/
Coordinate frame transformations
.TP
.B groundstation/
Visibility and pass prediction
.TP
.B docs/
Architecture, validation, caveats, roadmap
.SH LIMITATIONS
.IP \(bu 4
SDP-4 deep-space propagation not implemented
.IP \(bu 4
No IERS Earth Orientation Parameters ingestion
.IP \(bu 4
No Doppler shift or CAT control
.IP \(bu 4
No formal NORAD certification
.PP
See
.B CAVEATS.md
for full details.
.SH LICENSE
GNU Lesser General Public License v3.0 or later (LGPL-3.0-or-later)
.SH AUTHOR
Kris Kirby, KE4AHR
.SH DISCLAIMER
This software is provided \(lqas is\(rq without warranty of any kind.
.PP
It is intended for educational, research, and amateur radio use.
It is not certified for mission-critical or safety-of-life applications.
.SH SEE ALSO
ARCHITECTURE.md,
ROADMAP.md,
VALIDATION.md,
CAVEATS.md

