.TH PYGLSPG4 3 "2026-01-01" "Pyglspg4 0.1.0" "Library Functions Manual"
.
.SH NAME
pyglspg4 \- NORAD SGP-4 / SDP-4 satellite orbit propagation library
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
Python interface:

    from pyglspg4.tle.parser import parse_tle
    from pyglspg4.api.propagate import propagate
    from pyglspg4.time.julian import JulianDate

    tle = parse_tle(line1, line2)
    epoch = JulianDate(jd)
    position_km, velocity_km_s = propagate(tle, epoch)
.fi
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pyglspg4 is a deterministic, thread-safe implementation of the NORAD
SGP-4 (Simplified General Perturbations 4) and SDP-4 (Simplified Deep-Space
Perturbations 4) orbital propagators.

It computes Earth-centered inertial (ECI) position and velocity vectors
from Two-Line Element (TLE) sets over time.

The library supports:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Near-Earth satellites (SGP-4)
.IP \(bu 2
Deep-Space satellites (SDP-4)
.IP \(bu 2
Pure-Python and NumPy computation backends
.IP \(bu 2
Batch and parallel propagation
.IP \(bu 2
Deterministic, reproducible results
.RE
.
.SH FUNCTIONS
.
.SS propagate(tle, epoch, backend=None)
Propagates a single satellite state.

.TP
.B tle
Parsed Two-Line Element object.
.TP
.B epoch
JulianDate instance specifying the propagation epoch.
.TP
.B backend
Optional backend selector. Valid values are "python" or "numpy".
If omitted, a default backend is selected automatically.

.TP
.B Return Value
A tuple of:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
position_km \- (x, y, z) in kilometers
.IP \(bu 2
velocity_km_s \- (vx, vy, vz) in kilometers per second
.RE
.
.SS propagate_batch(tles, epoch)
Propagates multiple satellites sequentially using a shared backend.

.SS propagate_parallel(tles, epoch)
Propagates multiple satellites in parallel using process-based execution.
.
.SH MATHEMATICAL MODEL
The implementation follows the NORAD SGP-4 and SDP-4 models as described in:

.RS
Hoots, F. R., and Roehrich, R. L., "Models for Propagation of NORAD Element Sets",
Spacetrack Report No. 3, 1980.
.RE

Additional validation and numerical guidance is taken from:

.RS
Vallado, D. A., Fundamentals of Astrodynamics and Applications.
.RE
.
.SH VALIDATION
Pyglspg4 has been validated against:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Celestrak regression vectors
.IP \(bu 2
Published Vallado reference outputs
.IP \(bu 2
Cross-backend determinism tests
.RE
.
.SH THREAD SAFETY
All propagation functions are thread-safe.
No global mutable state is used.
.
.SH PERFORMANCE
Typical performance on modern systems:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
SGP-4: tens of thousands of propagations per second
.IP \(bu 2
SDP-4: thousands of propagations per second
.IP \(bu 2
Near-linear scaling with CPU cores in parallel mode
.RE
.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I pyglspg4/
Python package containing the implementation.
.
.SH LICENSE
GNU Lesser General Public License version 3 or later (LGPL-3.0-or-later).
.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2025-2026 Kris Kirby, KE4AHR
.
.SH SEE ALSO
sgp4(3), tle(5), celestrak(7)

